# Microscope problems, issues and questions that apply to all or most of our microscopes

## Getting human help

To get help from a human LMF staff member, the fastest way to get help
is to message the LMF team using Microsoft Teams and start a new chat
and type “LMFStaff” all one word) in the “to” field and hit enter. The
current staff members will appear in the chat message. If you message
during regular business hours, you are very likely to get a rapid
response.

## PC or monitor appears to not turn on

If you are getting a blank screen or it seems that the monitor won't
turn on, please be sure you have begun your reservation on Corum. This
controls the system remotely via the internet.

## Focus or Z-position not matching when running z-stack experiment

If you get an error when you try to run z-stack try this solution.

1\. Go to the Devices menu bar on top and be sure you have the right
z-device selected under “z-device”. Typically, you want this to be set
to “TI Drive” or “Ti2 Drive”, depending on the microscope body. If you
are using the Piezo (if it is an option, is faster and is used on the
SIM and sometimes on the Crest.) then choose that.

2\. In the N-D Acquisition tab, in "z-devices" choose the same device
selected in step 1. This should fix the problem.

## Focus or Z-position not changing when using physical focus knobs

If you can't change the z-value using the focus knobs or you can't move
the lens up or down, it probably means the escape button was pressed by
the last user. On a TI-E microscope body (tan microscope stand), look on
the right side of the microscope click and hold escape button. While
holding that button press refocus. This will release the lock safely. If
you are on one of the newer Ti2 scopes, then find the similar button on
the microscope body.

## Issues with running Nikon Elements software

### If this occurs on a microscope PC

If you run Nikon NIS-Elements and you receive a warning saying that
another instance of the application is running, it simply means another
user didn't close out correctly. If this is happening on any of our
microscope computers, the easiest and quickest way to fix it is to
simply restart the computer to bump the other user off and reset the
software license. Once it reboots, everything should work well.

### If this occurs on the HIVE

If you have this issue on the HIVE, then another user might be running
behind and using up a license. If this is the case, check Corum to see
who it might be and send them a chat message on Microsoft Teams. If this
occurs during business hours, feel free to reach out to LMF staff.

## If you get a hardware error message when your run Nikon Elements

If you are getting an error message about hardware loading failing, it
is ok. This is most frequently caused by something not being turned on
in the system, or something being turned on in the incorrect order.
First, check that all numbers for the microscope setup have been turned
on. If something is off, turn it on, then restart Nikon NIS Elements and
see if the problem persists. If there are still issues, turn off the
setup completely and start from the beginning, making sure to leave ten
seconds in between turning each numbered switch on.

## If you can’t get an image to show up on the computer screen

If you can see your sample correctly through the eyepiece but you don't
see anything on the screen here are a few things to check. Did you click
the Nikon A1 or camera light-path tab to switch to the camera or
confocal setting? Did you click an OC (optical configuration, they are
the buttons on each tab)? For the scanning confocal microscopes, if you
see a red button that says, "remove interlock", click it. This will
remove the interlock that is blocking the light. This is a common
pitfall on the A1R25 and A1RMP. Is the sample in focus and directly
under or above the sample? Go back to the eyepiece setting and
double-check as it could have moved or might be off-center. For A1RMP,
is the knob next to the eyepiece on "F"? Is the shutter at “O” (open)
setting? Is the filter position at "1" (empty)? Did you wait long enough
for the lasers to warm up? If you see lights blinking on the large box,
the lasers are still warming up so just give them a few more minutes.

## If you are getting an error about the camera when you launch Nikon Elements

If you are getting an error about a camera, it usually means that the
camera might not have connected correctly. Please shut down the PC (wait
till lights on PC turn off), turn off camera, then turn camera back on
and wait for blinking on back to stop. Finally, start the PC. That
should do it! You should not have to restart any other devices to solve
this issue.

## If you can’t see anything through the eyepiece

Here are things to check when you can't see through the eyepiece:

1.  Are you on the “eyepiece” tab in the Nikon NIS Elements program? The
    eyepiece tab needs to be selected to see light through the eyepiece.

2.  Did you select an OC (optical configuration)? You need to select an
    OC (the buttons that are labeled “green” “BF”, “TRITC”, “red”, or
    “FITC” or other things like that in the eyepiece tab).

3.  When the correct tab and OC are selected, does the correct button
    (labeled eye) on the front of the microscope turn light up in green.
    If not, press the button manually, then right-click on the OC and
    click “assign current microscope setting”.

4.  Is there an objective under your sample? If not, select one by
    clicking the icon on the left side of the screen.

5.  Is your sample directly above the objective?

6.  Is your sample in focus? You might not see anything until you are
    close to the focal point.

7.  Did you turn everything on in the correct order? If not, turn off
    all devices and turn them back on in the correct order.

8.  For A1R25, is the small pad (switch number 5) turned on? Try
    pressing the buttons to turn up the light intensity. V- violet
    (blue), GR- green, R- red.

9.  For A1RMP, the knob on the right side of the eyepiece needs to be on
    “BINO” and the shutter above the objective needs to be on the “o”
    (open) configuration. Also, make sure to turn on the light. Press
    the white button on the table for BF and step on the footswitch for
    fluorescence. For fluorescence, you also need to turn the wheel to
    the correct position (2 is blue, 3 is green, and 4 is red) that is
    not 1.

## If the program is running very slow or is frozen

If the software is frozen or running extremely slow, you should close
the software and reboot the PC. Leave the hardware all turned on during
this. Once the PC is back up and you are logged in, check the C-drive to
be sure it is not full. If it is, please message core staff. The reboot
usually frees up RAM resources and solves the issue.

## If you think the stage isn’t moving very fast or isn’t moving at all.

If the joystick seems to not be moving and yet the lights are on the
joystick, it is probably set to move excruciatingly slow. If you are on
a Nikon T-I-E (tan microscope body), the joystick speed can be changed for
xy movement by twisting the joystick stick. Watch the orange light. If
you are on a Nikon Ti2 (white/black microscope body), click the “z”
button that has 3 up-arrows above it. It cycles through extra fine,
fine, and coarse.

## If you think your image looks grainy or has low resolution

If your image looks grainy or like it is low resolution, it is probably
an issue with the sample, the focus, or an error. If you are certain
that you are in focus AND you are sure you have fluorescence (by using
the eyepiece with epifluorescence), did you have an error when you
booted up? if so, restart the PC and the microscope controller box. If
you don't see the fluorescence signal by eye, you very likely will not
see it on the software. It is not magic, unfortunately. It sometimes
helps to clean the objective and the sample glass.

## I have an error with Windows at boot up on the Crest system

If you see an error before windows even boots up, please follow the
instructions on the screen. You may need to fully shut down the PC and
restart. If you are using the Crest microscope, be sure to turn on the
camera first and wait for about 2 minutes until there are no blinking
lights at the back of the camera. Then start PC, laser box key, and
Crest device and you should then be ready to image on the Crest
microscope.
