## User asked: I am currently unable to use the A1-R-SIMe microscope due to an issue where it says, "Unable to connect device EXFO X-Cite 120"

LMF staff replied: You can simply ignore that as it will not affect
confocal imaging. There is probably a loose connection at the back of
the green and white box that is on the right side of the microscope.
Feel free to check those cables if you are up for it.

## User asked: When I run Nikon Elements, I get a startup error that says "select the confocal simulator to be loaded" 

LMF staff replied: To fix this, close Nikon N-I-S elements, power off
Nikon A1 box at the back wall, then power on and relaunch software.

## User asked: Does anyone know how to save the Maximum intensity projection images as a tiff? I save the image but it doesn’t save as the MIP

LMF staff replied: When you view it, you are right - it saves as a
regular z-stack. To create a maximum intensity projection for saving, go to ND Processing under
Image, then find create max intensity projection and save that result.

## User asked: I could not see the signal and no excitation laser on the Flim system on the A1-S-P microscope. Could anyone around help me?

LMF staff replied: Check that you have turned on the correct pulsed
laser control unit that is to the left of the A1-S-P microscope.

## User asked: What is the pixel size for the CellCyte microscopes?

LMF staff replied: The size of the pixels for images acquired from the
CellCyte microscopes (this is not true for other microscopes in the
facility) is 0.234 micron per pixel.

## User asked: I just started up the Crest and I have a POST error saying fatal P-C-I error.

LMF staff replied: That is a common error that usually occurs when the
PC is turned on before the camera is fully on. It makes the computer
crash. Try to restart the procedure of turning on the microscope. Make
sure you start with the computer off as the first step and then proceed
with the rest of the steps, waiting about 2 minutes after you turn the
camera on before powering up the PC.

## User asked: I am on the Crest and when I run Elements it says it can’t open camera device Prime 95B.

LMF staff replied: To solve this, do windows shut down then wait for PC
lights to turn off fully. Next, then turn off camera if it is on, then
turn camera back on and wait about 2 minutes, then turn PC back on and
launch software again.

## User asked: How do I figure out the pixel size for images that I collected in the Light Microscopy Facility

LMF staff replied: Almost always, the pixel size is listed in the image
file. It is part of the metadata that can be viewed with Nikon Elements
and other software like Fiji. Look for the word calibration.

## User asked: Does anyone know if there is a way to copy a portion of a GA3 recipe from one into another? 

LMF staff replied: There isn't an easy way to copy a part of one recipe
to another, but you can make a shared function by grouping part of a
recipe and then call that function in other GA3 recipes.

## User asked: I am having trouble with Nikon Elements crashing when I am analyzing images using the HIVE server.

LMF staff replied: Sorry to hear that. Often the cause of this crashing
is that you might not have set your temporary directory in the settings.
To do this, double click on the top bar of Elements and then at the
bottom of the “General” tab, change the Temp folder to the subdirectory
called “Temp” that you can find in the E-drive.

## User asked: I am using the Keyence microscope and when I try to run the Keyence Viewer software, I get a pop-up that says “Already running.”

LMF staff replied: Thanks for your question. To solve this problem,
you’ll just need to restart the PC. This will end the disconnected
session and start fresh.

## User asked: How can I figure out the pixel calibration or size for imaging I acquired on the Keyence microscope?

LMF staff replied: Tiff files saved with Keyence software/analyzer has
metadata that’s not compatible with Fiji or Image-J. If you use the default
calibration on the tiff files for your scale bars, it will not be
calibrated correctly. To display an accurate scale bar, you’ll need to
manually enter the right resolution in Fiji. To do this;  
1. Find the resolution info on the Keyence analyzer. It is under Insert
then scale then calibration “settings“  
2. Then in Fiji, do image then properties or go to analyze then set
scale and enter the number you got from step 1.

## User asked: I have a question regarding collecting tiled or large images. I collected two large images with a 10 by 10 array and on one of them there appears to be a repeating area. Do you know the reason?

LMF staff replied: It appears that the stage or the sample didn't move
with the image that has the repeats, but it did with the other one. I
have seen this happen in certain cases, often when an oil objective is
used. Because the oil has high viscosity, it can "drag" the sample
around with it if the sample is not clamped down. To prevent this
movement, feel free to use some black painter's tape to hold the sample
to the holder. You can find it on the big table in the middle of the
room or you can ask LMF staff.

## User asked: I can’t run Fiji on the HIVE because it is giving a “permission denied” error.

LMF staff replied: This happens with the auto-update feature. Please
send a message to Jim and he can update the software as administrator
and the problem will go away.

## User asked: I am working with Nikon Elements on the HIVE for image analysis and for some reason when I try to use most of the features in Elements they are all greyed out and not available. Do you know how I can fix this?

LMF staff replied: This often happens as some features require you to
have an image open before launching. This happens when trying to use
analysis explorer, GA3, and the tracking module. Probably affects other
things as well. Please give that a try.

## User asked: Do you still do office hours for help?

LMF staff replied: We stopped doing regular office hours as we
discovered that a calendly link works best. To schedule time with Jim,
visit umasslmf dot dev and you should see a
calendly link. If you don’t see the link, use the search function on
that site or simply email Jim.

## User asked: We have a new user in my lab and they want to get started with using resources in the Light Microscopy Facility. How should they proceed?

LMF staff replied: The easiest way to get them started is to have them
email Jim. Providing some information on the types of data they hope to
collect is always a good idea so that Jim and his team can steer them
towards the best microscope choices for their research questions.

## User asked: The microscope computer I am using says it needs to do a Windows update. What should I do?

LMF staff replied: You can pause the update during your imaging session.
When you are done, it would be wonderful if you could restart the PC so
that the update is applied. Thank you.

## User asked: I need to update my speed type number in Corum. Who can help me with that?

LMF staff replied: Your lab’s bookkeeper should be able to do that in
Corum, but if you run into any trouble, you can simply email Jim with
the number and he can activate you as a purchaser.

