# **Scanning confocal microscopes in the UMass LMF**

## Photoactivation, Photobleaching, FRAP, FLIP experiments

Any of our Nikon A1 confocal microscopes or our Nikon AX confocal
microscopes can easily perform photobleaching (FRAP) experiments or
photoactivation (PA). Additionally, our X1 spinning disc microscope can
do the same and is generally better for live cells or fast-moving
fluorophores. To perform a FRAP or PA experiment, in Nikon Elements
software you choose a small region using the region of interest (ROI)
editor to photo-bleach or a line or a point or any shape you desire, set
it as a stimulation ROI and then use the stimulation module. You can do
repetitive stimulations using N-D stimulation module or other ND modules
in the software. These can be found by right-clicking on a blank part of
the background of Elements and finding analysis controls.

## Common errors on the scanning confocal microscopes

If you are getting an A1 Simulator or simulation error, the reason is
that things were either not shutdown correctly or were started
incorrectly. Here is what I need you to do: Close the Nikon software if
it is open. Find the large Nikon box next to the microscope table (this
is not the Nikon box with the lasers). Look for a square push button
power switch on the left side of the box for the A1 confocal microscopes
and a large circle button at the front for the AX confocal microscopes.
When you find it, click it to turn off that box. Wait 15 to 30 seconds,
push button on box to power it up. Wait for the lights to stabilize and
then run NIS Elements. This should solve the error. If this does not
solve the error, shut everything off in order (high number to low, with
10 seconds in between) and restart all devices and NIS Elements.

## If you want to gather optimal pixel size resolution pictures on a scanning confocal.

The Nyquist criterion requires a sampling interval of about twice the
highest spatial frequency of the specimen to accurately preserve the
spatial resolution in the resulting image. If sampling occurs below that
required by the Nyquist criterion, details with high spatial frequency
will not be accurately represented in the final image. The Abbe limit of
resolution for optical images is approximately 0.22 micrometers (using
visible light), meaning that a digitizer must be capable of sampling at
intervals that correspond in the specimen space to 0.11 micrometers or
less. A digitizer that samples the specimen at 512 pixels per horizontal
scan line would have to produce a maximum horizontal field of view of 56
micrometers (512 x 0.11 micrometers) to conform to the Nyquist
criterion. An interval of 2.5 to 3 samples for the smallest resolvable
feature is suggested to ensure adequate sampling for high resolution
imaging.

## If you see stripes on the screen when using a scanning confocal microscope

If you see stripes on the screen, it probably means the scanning
confocal control box needs to be reset. This is the "simulator error"
that is quite common in a multi-user facility.

## If you see a dialogue popup saying dummy to position 1

If you get the pop up indicating something about "Dummy to position 1"
you can just ignore it. If it is annoying, you can remove it by clicking
"Light path" at top right, then the gear icon at bottom left and uncheck
the dummy warning box.
