# Tips and tricks for image acquisition and analysis

## If you want to change the displayed color of your image or channels

If you want to change the channel color in the software, it is easy. In
Elements you can change the color of old data or change it for future
data. For old data, right click on the image channel tab at bottom of
image and choose “properties” and then set your desired color. To change
color for future data on a confocal, click "Detector", then click the
desired channel color. To change future color on other microscopes,
right click on the optical configuration button and click “edit” and
then find the color you like.

## If you want to use more than 3 or 4 fluorophores

To image four or more colors, we recommend consulting an LMF staff
member to ensure that there is minimal to no bleed through and that you
are seeing what you want to be imaging. In general, you want to image
your furthest red color first and your bluest color last to minimize
photobleaching. Just about all our microscopes can image 4 fluorescent
colors plus a transmitted channel easily. Some of them can do more using
spectra imaging, fluorescence lifetime imaging, or special filter sets.
Ask staff for more information if you want to learn more about these
options.

## Can I get confocal images of my color-stained sample with transmitted light?

Unfortunately, confocal imaging is only for fluorescent samples, and
because of how it works, you can't do confocal imaging with bright-field
settings. However, you can still do a z-stack with bright-field to get a
3D image on almost all our microscopes. Please keep in mind that you
will not achieve the same resolution as an actual confocal image. If you
have a sample with a non-fluorescence-colored stain, the Keyence
microscope will work the best and it is super easy to use. Please
contact LMF staff for a consultation and we can help you figure it out.

## Can I do live cell imaging with incubation?

If you do not yet have access to the stage-top incubators on Core-Um, send
LMF staff a message on teams. Once you have access on Core-Um we can show
you how to use it if need-be. It is not difficult, but it is easiest to
show you in person. We have a few options that work for chamber slides,
dishes, or well plates. We also have 5 percent carbon dioxide at various places
around the main lab that you can use. You can reserve the incubators and
for carbon dioxide on Core-Um. If someone else has the carbon dioxide reserved for the time you
want to use it, please let us know or contact the other user to arrange
the times (so that your carbon dioxide supply doesn't get cutoff in the middle of
your experiment).

## Where is the best place to put my data?

You can use any cloud-based service or a USB drive to take data when you
leave. We also suggest that you use our enormous and free network
attached data server that is in LSL. To use our network attached
storage, you will need to put in a request from your advisor. The form
can be found at the website umasslmf.dev
under the analysis workstations link at the top of that website. Be sure
you and your advisor carefully read that page and form. Once you are up
and running, you can copy data from the microscope PCs to the shared
folder from any LMF computer and access that data from anywhere in the
world.

## If you need starter optical configurations or lost your settings

To import starter settings in Nikon Elements run NIS-Elements, go to
"Calibration" and choose "Optical Configurations" (top menu). Then click
import and find the most recent xml file in the data-drive (the file
might have a slightly different name). The new software uses light paths
that hold OCs that are appropriate. For instance, Nikon A1 has all the
confocal settings (you can add more), Eye-Epi is Eye epifluorescence.
Once you have them imported from my template file, you can add more. You
can also import settings from old data. Simply open a ND2 and
right-click on that image and choose "reuse camera settings" and then
"reuse device settings". Then click "add" on the top right of the screen
to add that as a new config. (be sure to un-check the objective in the
pop-up window after clicking add).

## If you are having issues getting good brightfield or transmitted or phase contrast or DIC light images

If you are having difficulty getting Kohler illumination set up, here is
what I suggest: First move to a low mag objective like 10x and then get
focused via Eye bright-field as best you can. As you look through
eyepiece, close top diaphragm slowly and watch for the leaves of the
iris or aperture. Once you see a dimming, focus the condenser lens up
and down slowly until the dark/bright contrast is in focus. You should
see a sharp delineation between bright and dark. Next, center the
"spotlight" with the two thumbscrews on the front of the condenser
gently, and close iris as you do this. If you are on a Nikon T-I Two
microscope, you will need some tools to do this – please consult with
LMF staff. Next, just open top iris until your field of view is just
filled. Then you can move up in magnification.

## What is saturation and how does it work?

Much like a coffee mug left out in the pouring rain and about to
overflow, digital detectors (Photomultiplier tubes on the scanning
confocal microscopes, cameras on the other microscopes) can only hold so
much signal; 0-4095 for 12-bit and 0-65535 for 16-bit. If the detector
is full and you add in more photons like the final rain drop from your
sample, the detector will saturate or overflow and you will not be able
to quantify that data.

## Which microscope or channel should I use to image a certain fluorophore?

Even without the "perfect" filter sets for your precise dye/color, it is
almost always possible to visualize any fluorophores - from blue to near
infrared. All our microscopes are equipped with the basic filter sets to
image the common fluorophores. This includes blue, green, red, and far
red, and sometimes near infrared. Some microscopes have lasers/filters
specific for C-F-P and Y-F-P. Additionally, we have a spectral detector
microscope (A1-S-P) that can discern closely grouped fluorophores.
Finally, our Flim (fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy) system can
be used to discern even two different green fluorophores, for example,
F-I-T-C and G-F-P!

## How should I apply oil and clean oil from oil objectives?

Here is a quick how-to on oil objectives - be sure you are using number
1.5 cover glass.

1\) Move Z-drive (focus knob) to zero (or as low as it can go).

2\) Then rotate in an oil objective. Be sure it is an oil objective by
looking at the text on the objective‚ if it does not say oil, do not
apply oil as that will be an expensive mistake.

3\) Carefully and cleanly apply one drop of oil to the top lens of the
objective without touching it - simply transfer the drop. If you drip
any elsewhere it is ok, just clean it up immediately so it does not make
a mess.

4\) Next, place the sample on the stage.

5\) I recommend using an Eyepiece configuration with the light power set
to low. As you increase the z-value, the oil will touch the coverslip,
and you will see a change in the optics like a flash.

6\) You can now focus as you are probably close to the correct focal
plane. One drop of oil should be enough for a few fields of view.

When done be sure to clean the oil off the objective using lens tissue.
Here is how you will clean it when done (this is required):

1\) Move Z-drive (focus knob) to zero (or as low as it can go).

2\) Remove sample.

3\) Rip a lens tissue in half.

4\) Drop one half on oil on objective and drag to the side with no
downward pressure. Do this with clean parts of tissue until no visible
oil is being absorbed.

5\) With the other half of the tissue sheet, spray once with lens
cleaner and repeat step 3 until clean.

6\) Look at the objective from a shallow angle - if clean it should look
mirror-like with no visible residue.

## If you want to use the mouse to control focus and Z

To enable the mouse to control the focus or z-position, go to top bar of
Nikon Elements and look for the devices menu, then find mouse joystick
set up and choose Ti (or Ti2) Z-drive. Then go to devices again and
click “enable mouse joystick”. To control XY movement of the stage with
the mouse, on a Live image, look for the icon at the top of the image
that kind of looks like a map compass. These controls only work when
looking at a live image.

## How can I display a scale bar or measure things in my image?

To display a scale bar on the Nikon software, you can simply click the
icon on the right side of your image that looks like a scale bar. If you
pull down the arrow, you can have access to options (color, font, etc.)
This will add it as a layer and not destroy underlying data, unless you
burn it - then it destroys pixels under the bar. For the Keyence
Analyzer program, go to "Insert" and then “Scale". If you are using
Fiji or Image-J or another program, you need to manually enter the
calibration because the metadata on the Tiff file generated on Keyence
program cannot be read by programs other than the Keyence app. In the
Analyzer app, go to Insert, scale, then click Calibration "Setting" and
write down the number you see there (micron per pixel). Then, convert it to the
right unit (divide one by that number for Fiji or Image-J) and in
Fiji or Image-J go to “Image” then “properties” and enter the number.

## How can I get some help with experimental plans?

We are available for free consultations to all members of the UMass
Amherst community. Please email us at lmf@umass.edu or message us on
Microsoft teams. We also offer free office hours or calendly as well as
chat sessions to help you out with getting started on the right path as
you begin using our facility. Basically, if you need some help, we are
here to help you so please just get in touch. You aren’t bothering us,
it is our job.

## Can you describe what gain means and what it does?

Gain refers to the voltage applied to the detector. If you turn it too
low, you will not see photons and if you turn it too high, you will see
too many photons (maybe) but also way more noise. In general, keep gain
below 20 on the scanning confocal microscopes and usually keep it
vertically aligned with the laser power, especially on the green and red
channels.

## Are there costs associated with training and getting help?

All LMF users are charged a training fee to cover staffing and for each
microscope they are trained to use. After training is complete (as
judged by the Director), the solo-use fee applies for future usage.
Additionally, we staff are available for dedicated imaging for a fee.
All fees can be found on the rates tab on our main website which can be
found at the UMass Institute for Applied Life Science website when you
navigate to cores and then light microscopy facility.

## If you runout of supplies

If you run out of objective oil, lens tissue, lens cleaner, or any other
supplies, please contact LMF staff via Microsoft teams or send us an
email. If this is during non-office hours or holidays, borrow some from
a nearby microscope desk or the center table (but still send us a
message, please, so we can replace it at our earliest convenience.)

## How can I view my data on my own computer or laptop?

Most of the images acquired in the LMF will have an image format that is
not readable by the basic image viewers built into Windows and Mac
computers (e.g. Windows Media Viewer or Preview). Here are a couple free
solutions: Fiji is a freely available distribution of Image-J that comes
pre-bundled with a number of useful plugins, including Bio-Formats which
can read that vast majority of proprietary image formats used in
microscopy, such as the .ND2 files acquired when using Nikon Elements.
Nikon NIS-Elements Viewer is a free standalone program to view image
files and datasets with the Nikon .ND2 file format. It offers the same
view and image selection modes as the NIS-Elements core packages and has
the same look and feel as the NIS-Elements core packages but lacks the
advanced analysis features of Nikon Elements.

## Is there a checklist to get me started?

If you don't know where to get started because it has been a while since
your training, go over the new user checklist, look through information
posted on Microsoft teams (look in "files" tab and in the "general"
channel), or contact LMF staff on Microsoft teams. Also come to office
hours (Look at first post on this website for info) to get help with
experimental design, automated imaging, using advanced features of the
NIS elements software, or analysis.

Here is the new user checklist:

1\) Turn devices on in the correct order. Make sure to wait 10 seconds
in between.

2\) Login with your UMass credentials. - if you didn't need to do this,
you might be in someone else's account.

3\) Start NIS Elements.

4\) Select the correct objective by clicking an objective icon on the
right-hand side. Make sure you use oil if it says “oil” when you hover
over it.

5\) To look through the eyepiece, click the “Eyepiece” tab AND select an
Optical Configuration (OC) (the buttons labeled “green” or “FITC”).

6\) Focus on the sample using the knob on the side. You can change the
speed of the joint stick or the z-knob by pressing the button with three
arrows or twisting the stick.

7\) Once it is in focus, switch to the confocal tab (labeled “A1” or
something similar) AND select an OC.

8\) Click the play button on the right to see live.

9\) Use the histogram to adjust exposure time (spinning disk confocal
microscopes), laser strength, and gain (scanning confocal microscopes).
Avoid saturation. Right-click the red exclamation mark on the O-C and
select “assign current settings” to save the changes you made. To create
a new OC for your experiment, click “Add+” on the right corner.

10\) To adjust contrast, move the line on the Look-Up Table (LUTs).

11\) To take a picture, click the camera icon next to the live play icon
on the right side.

12\) To take a z-stack, large-image, time series, or multipoint image,
use the ND acquisition tab (if you don't see it on your screen, go to a
gray area on the screen, right-click, then select “acquisition
controls”, then select “ND acquisition”). Make sure you click the
checkbox of all settings you want to use on the tabs.

13\) Once you are done, lower the objective to 0 (or the lowest it
allows you to go) and then move an empty spot under the sample holder.

14\) Restart the computer (turn off if crest) and then stop your
reservation on Core-Um.

15\) \*Look in “posts” and “files” tab in Microsoft teams for the
microscope you are using or “General” for more information about the
facility and the microscopes.

16\) \*\*Common questions you can ask the bot: “can't see through the
eyepiece” “can't see through the camera” “no light” “I'm getting an
error”.

## So, you’d like to reorient or rotate your sample on the screen while imaging.

If you'd like to rotate an image while acquiring on a scanning confocal,
go to the Scan area, you can shrink the green box a little and then grab
the green circle with the mouse and spin it to an arbitrary angle. Then
right-click to send the settings to the confocal hardware.

## If you want higher contrast images for the brightfield or transmitted channel, you can use DIC on some microscopes.

To adjust DIC, first slide the polarizer to the right (out of path),
then move manual wheel to an open position (not N1 or N2, for instance).
Then you will want to perform Kohler illumination on the microscope
after focusing on your sample. Next, put the DIC optics back in and
check. If it is still too dim at camera or eyepiece, open the aperture
below the N1 or N2 position to allow more light in. If it is still too dim,
be sure you have removed the top ND, or GIF, etc. filters by sliding them out
from each side. Finally, be sure the DIC prism and analyzer are
installed under the objective and in the turret. For more information or
help with this during business hours, please reach out to LMF staff.

## How can I improve my resolution?

Often contrast is confused with resolution, and it is often a focal
issue. So, if your images don't look as crisp as you expect them to be,
try these steps:

1.  Make sure the sample is focused.

2.  Clean the cover glass or the material that is covering the sample.

3.  Clean the objectives with lens cleaner. Sometimes 10x and 20x
    non-oil objective gets dirty and that can cause the images to be
    blurry.

4.  Image your positive control samples first to make sure that your
    sample is bright enough.

5.  Prepare a thinner sample.

6.  If you think a higher resolution may help, try using Nyquist.
